.\" Manual page created by Tomasz Kojm, 20020415
.TH "freshclam" "1" "November 11, 2003" "Tomasz Kojm" "Clam AntiVirus"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
freshclam \- update virus databases
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
freshclam [options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
freshclam updates the virus database. It's a part of the Clam AntiVirus package. It requires an Internet connection.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 

.TP 
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Output help information and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR
Print version number and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Be verbose. This option causes freshclam to print many additional informations.
.TP 
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet \- output only error messages.
.TP 
\fB\-\-stdout\fR
Write all messages to the standard output (stdout), instead of the standard error output (stderr).
.TP 
\fB\-l FILE, \-\-log=FILE\fR
Save download report in FILE.
.TP 
\fB\-\-log\-verbose\fR
Save additional information (mostly needless) to the report file.
.TP 
\fB\-\-datadir=DIRECTORY\fR
Install downloaded database in DIRECTORY. The directory must be writeable for the 'clamav' user or unprivileged user running freshclam.
.TP 
\fB\-u USER, \-\-user USER\fR
Run as USER. By default (when started by root) freshclam drops privileges and works as the 'clamav' user.
.TP 
\fB\-d, \-\-daemon\fR
Run in a daemon mode. This option requires \-\-checks.
.TP 
\fB\-c #n, \-\-checks=#n\fR
Check #n times pet day for new database. #n must be between 1 and 50.
.TP 
\fB\-\-http\-proxy=hostname[:port]\fR
Connect via a proxy server.
.TP 
\fB\-\-proxy\-user=user:password\fR
Do proxy authorization for user. Password is required.
.TP 
\fB\-\-daemon\-notify=/path/to/clamav.conf\fR
Notify the daemon about the new database. By default it reads a hardcoded config file but you can use an another one. Both local and TCP sockets are supported.
.TP 
\fB\-\-on\-error\-execute=COMMAND\fR
Execute COMMAND if error occured. Remeber, that virus database freshness is the most important thing in anti\-virus system. With this option freshclam can alert you (eg. send SMS) when something is going wrong.
.TP 
\fB\-\-on\-update\-execute=COMMAND\fR
Execute COMMAND after succesful update.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
.TP 
(0) Download database to default directory:

\fBfreshclam\fR
.TP 
(1) Download database to current directory:

\fBfreshclam \-\-datadir=.\fR
.TP 
(2) Run as a daemon and check 2 times per day for new database:

\fBfreshclam \-d \-c 2\fR
.SH "RETURN CODES"
0 : Database succesfully updated.
.TP 
1 : Database is up\-to\-date.
.TP 
40: Unknown option passed.
.TP 
50: Can't change directory.
.TP 
51: Can't check MD5 sum of file.
.TP 
52: Connection (network) problem.
.TP 
53: Can't unlink file.
.TP 
54: MD5 or digital signature verification error.
.TP 
55: Error reading file.
.TP 
60: Can't get information about clamav user from /etc/passwd.
.SH "CREDITS"
Please check the full documentation for credits.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
Tomasz Kojm <tk@clamav.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
clamd(8), clamdscan(1), clamscan(1), sigtool(1), clamav.conf(5), clamav\-milter(8)
