.\" Manual page created by Tomasz Kojm, 20020629
.TH "sigtool" "1" "November 11, 2003" "Tomasz Kojm" "Clam AntiVirus"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
sigtool \- generate a virus signature
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
sigtool [options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
sigtool generates a virus signature using an external anti\-virus scanner which is able to detect the virus. It can also create a hexadecimal dump and build and unpack a CVD database.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 

.TP 
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Output help information and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR
Print version number and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet \- output only error messages.
.TP 
\fB\-\-stdout\fR
Write all messages to standard output (stdout), instead of standard error output (stderr).
.TP 
\fB\-\-hex\-dump\fR
Read data from stdin and write hex string to stdout.
.TP 
\fB\-c, \-\-command\fR
Anti\-virus scanner command with options. Remember about quotes if the argument string contains white characters. Command should contain everything except infected file name.
.TP 
\fB\-f, \-\-file\fR
Infected file name.
.TP 
\fB\-s, \-\-string\fR
Unique string from anti\-virus scanner's output when it detects the virus. In most cases it should be a virus name.
.TP 
\fB\-i, \-\-info\fR
Print a CVD information and verify MD5 and a digital signature.
.TP 
\fB\-b, \-\-build\fR
Build a CVD file. \-s, \-\-server is required.
.TP 
\fB\-\-server\fR
ClamAV Signing Service address (for virus database developers only).
.TP 
\fB\-\-unpack, \-u\fR
Unpack a selected CVD file to a current directory.
.TP 
\fB\-\-unpack\-current\fR
Unpack a local CVD file to a current directory.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
.TP 
(0) Generate hex string from testfile and save it to testfile.hex:

\fBcat testfile | sigtool \-\-hex\-dump > testfile.hex\fR
.TP 
(1) Please check clamdoc.pdf and signatures.pdf for more example of usage.
.SH "CREDITS"
Please check the full documentation for credits.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
Tomasz Kojm <tkojm@clamav.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
clamd(8), clamdscan(1), clamscan(1), freshclam(1), clamav.conf(5), clamav\-milter(8)
