.TH "clamav-milter" "8" "November 11, 2003" "" "Clam AntiVirus"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
clamav\-milter \- a milter compatible mail scanner
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
clamav\-milter [options] socket_address
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
clamav\-milter is a virus filter interface for sendmail. It uses a mail scanning engine built into clamd.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 

.TP 
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Output the help information and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR
Print the version number and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-c FILE, \-\-config\-file=FILE\fR
By default clamav\-milter uses a default ClamAV configuration file. With this option you may select an another one.
.TP 
\fB\-x n, \-\-debug\-level=n\fR
Set the debug level to n (where n from [0..9]).
.TP 
\fB\-b, \-\-bounce\fR
Send a failure message to the sender.
.TP 
\fB\-l, \-\-local\fR
Also scan messages sent from LAN.
.TP 
\fB\-o, \-\-outgoing\fR
Scan outgoing messages from this machine.
.TP 
\fB\-\-server=ADDRESS, \-s ADDRESS\fR
IP address of server running clamd (when using TCPsocket).
.TP 
\fB\-\-max\-children=n, \-m n\fR
Maximum number of children.
.TP 
\fB\-\-dont\-scan\-on\-error, \-d\fR
Pass e\-mails through unscanned if a system error occurs.
.TP 
\fB\-\-force\-scan\fR
Force scan all messages (overrides (\-o and \-l).
.TP 
\fB\-\-noxheader\fR
Suppress X\-Virus\-Scanned header.
.TP 
\fB\-\-postmaster, \-p\fR
Postmaster address (default is "postmaster").
.TP 
\fB\-\-postmaster\-only, \-P\fR
Send warnings only to the postmaster.
.TP 
\fB\-\-quiet, \-q\fR
Don't send e\-mail notifications of interceptions.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
clamav\-milter \-\-max\-children=2 \-obl local:/var/run/clmilter.sock
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
clamav\-milter was written by Nigel Horne <njh@clamav.net>, the manual page was created by Tomasz Kojm <tkojm@clamav.net>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
clamd(8), clamscan(1), freshclam(1), sigtool(1), clamav.conf(5)
