.\" Manual page created by Tomasz Kojm, 20020629
.TH "sigtool" "1" "September 18, 2004" "Tomasz Kojm" "Clam AntiVirus"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
sigtool \- signature and database management tool
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
sigtool [options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
sigtool can be used to generate MD5 checksums, convert data 
into hexadecimal format, and build/unpack CVD databases. It's  also to verify digital signatures of databases and list virus signature names.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 

.TP 
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Output help information and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR
Print version number and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet \- output only error messages.
.TP 
\fB\-\-stdout\fR
Write all messages to standard output (stdout), instead of standard error output (stderr).
.TP 
\fB\-\-hex\-dump\fR
Read data from stdin and write hex string to stdout.
.TP 
\fB\-\-md5 [FILES]\fR
Generate MD5 checksum from stdin or MD5 sigs for FILES.
.TP 
\fB\-\-html\-normalise=FILE\fR
Create normalised HTML files comment.html, nocomment.html, and script.html in current working directory.
.TP 
\fB\-i, \-\-info\fR
Print a CVD information and verify MD5 and a digital signature.
.TP 
\fB\-b, \-\-build\fR
Build a CVD file. \-s, \-\-server is required.
.TP 
\fB\-\-server\fR
ClamAV Signing Service address (for virus database developers only).
.TP 
\fB\-\-unpack, \-u\fR
Unpack a selected CVD file to a current directory.
.TP 
\fB\-\-unpack\-current\fR
Unpack a local CVD file to a current directory.
.TP 
\fB\-l, \-\-list\-sigs\fR
List signature names.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
.TP 
Generate hex string from testfile and save it to testfile.hex:

\fBcat testfile | sigtool \-\-hex\-dump > testfile.hex\fR
.SH "CREDITS"
Please check the full documentation for credits.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
Tomasz Kojm <tkojm@clamav.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
clamd(8), clamdscan(1), clamscan(1), freshclam(1), clamd.conf(5), clamav\-milter(8)
