.\" Manual page created by Tomasz Kojm, 1.10.2002.
.TH "clamav.conf" "5" "June 6, 2003" "Tomasz Kojm" "Clam AntiVirus"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
\fBclamav.conf\fR \- Configuration file for Clam AntiVirus Daemon
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
The clamav.conf configures the Clam AntiVirus daemon, clamd(8).
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
The file consists of comments and options with arguments. Each line that starts with a hash (\fB#\fR) symbol is ignored. Everything is case sensitive. Options are of the form \fBOption Argument\fR, some options don't use arguments. There are few types of the arguments:
.TP 
\fBSTRING\fR
String without a blank characters.
.TP 
\fBSIZE\fR
Size in bytes. You can use a 'M' or 'm' modifiers for megabytes and a 'K' or 'k' for kilobytes.
.TP 
\fBNUMBER\fR
Unsigned integer.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
When some option is not used (hashed or doesn't exist in the configuration file), clamd takes a default action.
.TP 
\fBExample\fR
When this option is set, clamd will stop and ask you to modify the configuration file.
.TP 
\fBLogFile STRING\fR
Enable logging to a specified file.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBLogFileUnlock\fR
Disable the lock, that protects against running clamd with the same configuration multiple times. Enabling this option is not recommended.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBLogFileMaxSize SIZE\fR
Limit the size of the log file. When SIZE is reached, the logger is automatically disabled. Value of 0 disables the limit.
.br 
Default: 1M
.TP 
\fBLogTime\fR
Log time information with each message.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBLogSyslog\fR
Use system logger (can work together with LogFile).
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBPidFile STRING\fR
Save the process identifier of the listening daemon (main thread) to a specified file.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBDataDirectory STRING\fR
Path to the directory containing database files.
.br 
Default: hardcoded directory.
.TP 
\fBLocalSocket STRING\fR
Path to the local (Unix) socket the daemon will listen on.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBTCPSocket NUMBER\fR
TCP port number the daemon will listen on.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBMaxConnectionQueueLength NUMBER\fR
Maximum length the queue of pending connections may grow to.
.br 
Default: 15
.TP 
\fBMaxThreads NUMBER\fR
Maximal number of a threads running at the same time.
.br 
Default: 5.
.TP 
\fBThreadTimeout NUMBER\fR
Stop thread\-scanner after specified time (in seconds). Value of 0 disables the timeout.
.br 
Default: 180
.TP 
\fBMaxDirectoryRecursion NUMBER\fR
Maximal depth the directories are scanned at.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBFollowDirectorySymlinks\fR
Follow a directory symlinks. You should have enabled directory recursion limit to avoid a potential problems.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBFollowFileSymlinks\fR
Follow a regular file symlinks.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBSelfCheck NUMBER\fR
Do internal checks every NUMBER seconds. In some cases it's able to fix a problem (eg. rebuild a broken graph).
.br 
Default: 3600
.TP 
\fBUser STRING\fR
When started by root, drop priviledges to a specified user.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBAllowSupplementaryGroups\fR
When started by root and the User option is activated, it will initialize all the groups from /etc/group for which user is a member.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBForeground\fR
Don't fork into background. Useful in debugging.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBStreamSaveToDisk\fR
When activated, input stream (see STREAM command) will be saved to disk before scanning \- this allows scanning within archives.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBStreamMaxLength SIZE\fR
Close the connection if this limit is exceeded
.br 
Default: disabled.
\fBScanMail\fR
Enable scanning of mail files.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBScanArchive\fR
Enable archive scanning.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBArchiveMaxFileSize SIZE\fR
Files in archives larger than this limit won't be scanned. Value of 0 disables the limit.
.br 
Default: 10M
.TP 
\fBArchiveMaxRecursion NUMBER\fR
Limit archive recursion level. Value of 0 disables the limit.
.br 
Default: 5
.TP 
\fBArchiveMaxFiles NUMBER\fR
Number of files to be scanned within archive. Value of 0 disables the limit.
.br 
Default: 1000
.TP 
\fBArchiveLimitMemoryUsage\fR
Use slower decompression algorithm which uses less memory. This option affects bzip2 decompressor only.
.br 
Default: disabled
.TP 
\fBClamukoScanOnLine\fR
Enable Clamuko \- on\-access scanner for Linux. Dazuko must be already running.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBClamukoScanOnOpen\fR
Scan a file on open.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBClamukoScanOnClose\fR
Scan a file on close.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBClamukoScanOnExec\fR
Scan a file on execute.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBClamukoIncludePath STRING\fR
Set the include paths (all files and directories in them will be scanned). You can have multiple ClamukoIncludePath options, but each directory must be added in a seperate option.
.br 
Default: disabled. Required.
.TP 
\fBClamukoExcludePath\fR
Set the exclude paths. All subdirectories are also excluded.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBClamukoMaxFileSize SIZE\fR
Don't scan files larger than SIZE.
.br 
Default: 5M
.TP 
\fBClamukoScanArchive\fR
Enable archive scanning. It uses ArchiveMax* limits.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.SH "FILES"
.LP 
/etc/clamav.conf
.br 
/usr/local/etc/clamav.conf
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
Tomasz Kojm <zolw@konarski.edu.pl>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
clamd(8), clamdscan(1), clamscan(1), freshclam(1), sigtool(1)
