.TH "clamav-milter" "8" "December 7, 2003" "" "Clam AntiVirus"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
clamav\-milter \- milter compatible mail scanner
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
clamav\-milter [options] socket_address
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
clamav\-milter is a filter for sendmail mail server. It uses a mail scanning engine built into clamd.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 

.TP 
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Output the help information and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR
Print the version number and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-c FILE, \-\-config\-file=FILE\fR
By default clamav\-milter uses a default configuration file, this option allows you to specify another one.
.TP 
\fB\-x n, \-\-debug\-level=n\fR
Set the debug level to n (where n from [0..9]).
.TP 
\fB\-b, \-\-bounce\fR
Send a failure message to the sender, and to the postmaster.
[ \fBWarning\fR: most viruses and worms
fake their source address, so this option is not recommended ]
.TP
\fB-d, \-\-dont-scan-on-error\fR
If a system error occurs pass messages through unscanned,
usually when a system error occurs the milter raises a temporary failure which
generally causes the message to remain in the queue.
.TP
\fB-f, \-\-force-scan\fR
Always scan, whereever the address came from.
.TP 
\fB-l, \-\-local\fR
Also scan messages sent from LAN.
.TP
\fB-n, \-\-noxheader\fR
Usually clamav\-milter adds a heading to messages that are scanned.
The header is of the form "X-Virus-Scanned: version", this option instructs
clamav\-milter to refrain from adding this heading.
.TP 
\fB-o, \-\-outgoing\fR
Scan outgoing messages from this machine.
.TP
\fB-p, \-\-postmaster=EMAILADDRESS\fR
Sets the e-mail address to send notifications to when the \-\-bounce or
\-\-postmaster-only option is given [ Default: postmaster ]
.TP
\fB-P, \-\-postmaster-only\fR
When the \-\-bounce option is given, only send a notification to the postmaster,
not the sender.
.TP
\fB-q, \-\-quiet\fR
Don't send any warning messages when a virus or worm or is detected.
This option overrides the \-\-bounce and \-\-postmaster-only options, and is
the way to turn off notification to the postmaster.
.TP
\fB-Q, \-\-quarantine=EMAILADDRESS\fR
If this e-mail address is given, messages containing a virus or worm are
redirected to it.
.TP
\fB-U, \-\-quarantine-dir=DIR\fR
If this option is given, infected files are left in this directory.
Note - this option only works when using LocalSocket.
.TP 
\fB\-\-server=ADDRESS, \-s ADDRESS\fR
IP address of server running clamd (when using TCPsocket).
.TP 
\fB\-\-max\-children=n, \-m n\fR
Maximum number of children.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
clamav\-milter \-\-max\-children=2 \-obl local:/var/run/clmilter.sock
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
clamav\-milter was written by Nigel Horne <njh@bandsman.co.uk>, the manual page was created by Tomasz Kojm <zolw@konarski.edu.pl>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
clamd(8), clamscan(1), freshclam(1), sigtool(1), clamav.conf(5)
