.\" Manual page created by Tomasz Kojm, 21.11.2002
.TH "Clamd client" "1" "November 21, 2002" "Tomasz Kojm" "Clam AntiVirus"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
clamdscan \- scan files/directories against viruses using Clam AntiVirus Daemon
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
clamscan [options] [file/directory]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
clamdscan is a simple clamd client, which may be used as a clamscan replacement. clamdscan accepts all the options implemented in clamscan. It's a part of the Clam AntiVirus package.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 

.TP 
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Output help information and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR
Print the version number and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Be verbose. This option causes clamscan to print many additional informations.
.TP 
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet \- only output error messages.
.TP 
\fB\-\-stdout\fR
Write all messages to the standard output (stdout), instead of the standard error output (stderr). The buffer is automatically flushed (stdout unlike stderr is buffered), to avoid a race conditions on output.
.TP 
\fB\-l FILE, \-\-log=FILE\fR
Save the scan report to FILE. By default the log isn't saved.
.TP 
\fB\-\-log\-verbose\fR
Save an additional information (mostly needless) to the report file.
.TP 
\fB\-\-disable\-summary\fR
Disable summary printing at the end of a scanning.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
.TP 
(0) To scan a one file:

\fBclamdscan file\fR
.TP 
(1) To scan a current directory:

\fBclamdscan\fR
.TP 
(2) To scan all files in /home:

\fBclamdscan /home\fR
.SH "RETURN CODES"
.LP 
0 : No virus found.
.TP 
1 : Virus(es) found.
.TP 
2 : Error occured.
.SH "CREDITS"
Please check the full documentation for credits.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
Tomasz Kojm <zolw@konarski.edu.pl>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
clamscan(1), clamd(8), freshclam(1), sigtool(1), clamav.conf(5)
