.\" Manual page created by Tomasz Kojm, 20021121
.TH "Clamd client" "1" "February 20, 2004" "Tomasz Kojm" "Clam AntiVirus"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
clamdscan \- scan files and directories against viruses using Clam AntiVirus Daemon
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
clamdscan [options] [file/directory]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
clamdscan is a simple clamd client which may be used as a clamscan replacement. clamdscan accepts all the options implemented in clamscan but most of them will be ignored because its scanning abilities only depend on clamd. clamdscan is a part of the Clam AntiVirus package.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 

.TP 
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Output help information and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR
Print version number and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Be verbose. This option causes clamscan to print many additional informations.
.TP 
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet \- only output error messages.
.TP 
\fB\-\-stdout\fR
Write all messages to the standard output (stdout) instead of the standard error output (stderr).
.TP 
\fB\-\-config\-file=FILE\fR
Read clamd settings from FILE.
.TP 
\fB\-l FILE, \-\-log=FILE\fR
Save the scan report to FILE.
.TP 
\fB\-\-log\-verbose\fR
Save additional messages (mostly useless) to the report file.
.TP 
\fB\-\-no\-summary\fR
Do not display summary at the end of scanning.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
.TP 
(0) To scan a one file:

\fBclamdscan file\fR
.TP 
(1) To scan a current working directory:

\fBclamdscan\fR
.TP 
(2) To scan all files in /home:

\fBclamdscan /home\fR
.SH "RETURN CODES"
.LP 
0 : No virus found.
.TP 
1 : Virus(es) found.
.TP 
2 : An error occured.
.SH "CREDITS"
Please check the full documentation for credits.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
Tomasz Kojm <tkojm@clamav.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
clamscan(1), clamd(8), freshclam(1), clamd.conf(5)
