.\" Based on work by by Tomasz Kojm, 1.10.2002. 
.\" Manual page created by Magnus Ekdahl and Thomas Lamy
.TH "freshclam.conf" "5" "June 6, 2003" "Thomas Lamy" "Clam AntiVirus"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
\fBfreshclam.conf\fR \- Configuration file for Clam AntiVirus Database Updater
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
The file freshclam.conf configures the Clam AntiVirus Database Updater, freshclam(1).
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
The file consists of comments and options with arguments. Each line that starts with a hash (\fB#\fR) symbol is ignored. Everything is case sensitive. Options are of the form \fBOption Argument\fR, some options don't use arguments. There are few types of the arguments:
.TP 
\fBSTRING\fR
String without blank characters.
.TP 
\fBSIZE\fR
Size in bytes. You can use a 'M' or 'm' modifiers for megabytes and a 'K' or 'k' for kilobytes.
.TP 
\fBNUMBER\fR
Unsigned integer.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
When some option is not used (hashed or doesn't exist in the configuration file), freshclam takes a default action.
.TP 
\fBExample\fR
When this option is set, freshclam will stop and ask you to modify the configuration file.
.TP
\fBDatabaseOwner STRING\fR
When started by root, drop privileges to a specified user. Default is \"clamav\".
.TP
\fBDatabaseDirectory STRING\fR
One can change the default database directory here.  Note that clamd and clamscan expect the hardcoded path \/var\/lib\/clamav.
.TP
\fBChecks NUM\fR
Number of new database checks per day. Default is to check 6 times \(every 4 hours\).
.TP 
\fBUpdateLogFile STRING\fR
Enable logging to a specified file. Highly recommended.
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBLogSyslog\fR
Enable logging to Syslog.  May be used in combination with UpdateLogFile
.br 
Default: disabled.
.TP 
\fBLogVerbose\fR
Enable verbose logging.
.TP 
\fBDatabaseMirror STRING\fR
Server name where database updates are downloaded from. The default is database.clamav.net, which points to all official mirrors.
.br.
If this option is given multiple times, freshclam(1) tries them in the order given if one download fails.
.br 
There is no default, which results in an error when running freshclam(1).
.TP
\fBMaxAttempts NUM\fR
Freshclam(1) tries every mirror this number of times before switching to the next mirror.
.br.
Default is to try once per mirror.
.TP
\fBHTTPProxyServer STR\fR, \fBHTTPProxyPort NUM\fR
Use given proxy server and TCP port for database downloads.
.TP
\fBHTTPProxyUsername STR\fR,\fBHTTPProxyPassword STR\fR
Proxy usage is authenticated through given username and password.
.br.
Default: no proxy authentication
.TP
\fBNotifyClamd \[STRING\]\fR
Notify a running clamd(8) to reload it\'s database after a download has occured. Optionally a clamav.conf(5) file location may be given to tell freshclam(1) how to communicate with clamd(8).
.br.
The default is to not notify clamd. See clamav.conf(5)\'s option SelfCheck for how clamd(8) handles database updates in this case.
.TP
\fBOnUpdateExecute STRING\fR
Execute this command after the database has been successfully updated.
.TP
\fBOnErrorExecute\fR
Execute this command after a database update has failed.
.SH "NOTE"
While not reasonable, any configuration option from clamav.conf(5) may be given.
.SH "FILES"
.LP 
/usr/local/etc/freshclam.conf
.br
/etc/clamav/freshclam.conf
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
Thomas Lamy <thomas.lamy@netwake.de>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
freshclam(1), clamav.conf(5), clamd(8), clamscan(1)

